#Galaxy ToolFactory appliance
##Use this for the GTN ToolFactory developer's tutorial.

The docker-compose infrastructure used here was copied wholesale from https://github.com/bgruening/docker-galaxy-stable - the excellent documentation at
that site is not repeated here. Respect. A few minor pointers only are provided below - please refer to the original documentation for details.

This appliance takes a basic Galaxy server configuration and creates a ToolFactory appliance in Docker by adding:

1.    A working copy of the ToolFactory - a form driven code generator to make new Galaxy tools from scripts
2.    A Planemo test tool that tests ToolFactory untested archives and returns an updated toolshed archive with the completed test and a Planemo test report.
  - This too was generated by the ToolFactory.
  - Output labels were hand-adjusted in the XML to provide the incoming archive name to distinguish the outputs but no other changes were made. Dog food.
3.    A warning that it would be extraordinarily unwise to ever expose this appliance anywhere on the public internet. Please, just don't.

## WARNING!
**This appliance has been configured to "work around" some of Galaxy's normally very strict job runner isolation features**

Running it on any server accessible from the public internet and potential miscreants is strongly discouraged as a result.
It is safe to run on a laptop or desktop and runs as a set of Docker containers.
ToolFactory and other related source code is included in this repository for the curious or the dubious.

## Installation and startup

Something like this should get it started - *adding the singularity yml to the command is essential for the planemo tester to work*:

```
git clone https://github.com/fubar2/toolfactory-galaxy-server
cd toolfactory-galaxy-server/compose
docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml -f docker-compose.singularity.yml up -d
```

Your appliance should be running with a local Galaxy on localhost:8080 after a fair bit of activity.

Out of the box login is 'admin@galaxy.org' and the password is 'password'
This is obviously insecure but convenient and easily changed at first login.
Or more permanently in the docker-compose.yml if you prefer.

The container `/export` directory is mounted locally at `compose/export` .

## Demonstration tools are the functional documentation

Follow the welcome page instructions to load the sample tools and start exploring how they were built by
looking at the settings for each one to see what can be done.

To view the form that generated each job, open the toolshed archive or the XML by clicking on it, and select the `rerun` button.
Edit the form and rerun to create an updated tool. The history has previous versions.
Change the tool ID to change the tool name.

## Generating your own tools

Generated tools are installed on build. The whole process takes a few seconds.
Choose the names thoughtfully and be warned: there are no checks on tool names - any existing installed tool with the same name will be overwritten permanently. The history
will retain all the generating jobs if you accidentally overwrite a tool.

Refresh the page (by clicking the home icon or the "analysis" tab) to see them in the ToolFactory section and try them out.

Rerun the job and adjust the form. Rinse and repeat until ready.

The generated tool has not been run to generate test outputs, so the archive is not complete although the installed tool may work fine.

To generate a real, tested toolshed archive, use the ToolFactory generated planemo_test tool.
It will run planemo to generate outputs, then run a real test and return a proper toolshed archive.

The first test takes 6 minutes. Subsequently more like 40 seconds depending on conda and the complexity of dependencies needed
for the tool to run.

An archive containing the tool with proper test will be returned with the planemo report in the history.

## To safely shut the appliance down

`docker-compose down`

from the same place you started should shut it down nicely



Ross Lazarus April 2021
